= ruby-bigquery-cl

* http://github.com/boo-box/ruby-bigquery-cl
Ruby BigQuery is a client for Ruby to interact with Google BigQuery services. 

=== Features/Problems

* can execute queries
* can create tables
* can delete tables
* can import data

For bug feedback, please use Github Issues and let us know!

=== Installation:

3 little steps:

    git clone git@github.com:boo-box/ruby-bigquery-cl.git
    cd ruby-bigquery-cl
    rake install

=== Basic Usage:

Here's a basic walkthrough to present the main features of this gem.

First of all, let's require this gem in our code:

    require 'ruby-bigquery-cl'

Then, we must setup our BigQuery token to allow access to service:

    BigQuery.setup do |config|
      config.token = 'HERE-GOES-YOUR-TOKEN'
    end

Assuming that you already has a table created and populated with your dataset, you can execute your queries with the Query object:

    query = BigQuery::Query.new
    result = query.execute('SELECT field FROM [bucket/table]')

Now, we need another table! Create a new one is as simple as that:

    BigQuery::Table.create('bucket/new_table', schema)

The schema structure is described here:

    schema = [
        {:id => "name", :type => "string", :mode => "REQUIRED"},
        {:id => "age", :type => "integer"},
        {:id => "weight", :type => "float"},
        {:id => "is_magic", :type => "boolean"}
    ]


To import some data to this new table, we'll do this:

    BigQuery::Import.new('bucket/new_table', ["file1.csv", "file2.csv", "file3.csv"])

Google BigQuery limits import data up to 1 GB. If we need a bigger dataset, we can split into multiple files and pass it as an array to the Import constructor.

On the response of the import method there's an ID of the job being executed at Google BigQuery. Since there's a LOT of data being uploaded and processed, it takes some time to this operation to complete. In case we need to check the job status, we can look for it with the ID provided before:

    BigQuery::ImportStatus.new('bucket/new_table', THE_JOB_ID)

Last, we'll delete this table, since we don't need it anymore. We got it covered:

    BigQuery::Table.delete('bucket/new_table')

That was a quick walkthrough. In case you need more help, feel free to drop us a message at tech@boo-box.com

=== License:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011 FIXME full name

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
